❯ ollama run llava:34b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ─╯
>>> Create for me a detailed SOC template for an audit and assessment, include a detailed explanation of what each SOC type is, when each SOC type should be used, and then give me the template and checklist for each type
Sure! Here is a detailed SOC template for an audit and assessment:

SOC Type 1: Trust Service Principles (TSP)

* Description: SOC 1 reports focus on financial statement assertions related to an organization's internal control over financial reporting.
* When to use it: SOC 1 should be used when there is a need for assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to financial statements.

SOC Type 2: Trust Service Criteria (TSC)

* Description: SOC 2 reports focus on an organization's information security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy.
* When to use it: SOC 2 should be used when there is a need for assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to operational processes.

SOC Type 3: Public Trust Reporting (PTR)

* Description: SOC 3 reports focus on publicly available descriptions of an organization's information security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy.
* When to use it: SOC 3 should be used when there is a need for assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to public reporting.

Here is a template and checklist for each type of SOC:

SOC Type 1 Template and Checklist:

1. Description of the entity's systems, processes and procedures related to financial statement assertions
2. Description of the scope of the audit and any limitations on the assurance provided
3. Assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to financial statements
4. Identification of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
5. Discussion of management's response to identified material weaknesses
6. Description of any significant changes in internal control over financial reporting since the last audit
7. Opinion on whether the entity's system, processes and procedures have been designed and operated effectively to achieve the relevant assertions
8. Recommended improvements to the entity's system, processes and procedures related to internal control over financial reporting

SOC Type 2 Template and Checklist:

1. Description of the entity's systems, processes and procedures related to information security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy
2. Description of the scope of the audit and any limitations on the assurance provided
3. Assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to operational processes
4. Identification of any material weaknesses in internal control over operations
5. Discussion of management's response to identified material weaknesses
6. Description of any significant changes in internal control over operations since the last audit
7. Opinion on whether the entity's system, processes and procedures have been designed and operated effectively to achieve the relevant criteria
8. Recommended improvements to the entity's system, processes and procedures related to internal control over operations
9. Description of any tests of controls or other procedures performed during the audit
10. Description of any significant findings or issues identified during the audit

SOC Type 3 Template and Checklist:

1. Description of the entity's systems, processes and procedures related to information security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy
2. Description of the scope of the assessment and any limitations on the assurance provided
3. Assurance on the effectiveness of controls that are relevant to public reporting
4. Identification of any material weaknesses in internal control over public reporting
5. Discussion of management's response to identified material weaknesses
6. Description of any significant changes in internal control over public reporting since the last assessment
7. Opinion on whether the entity's system, processes and procedures have been designed and operated effectively to achieve the relevant criteria
8. Recommended improvements

